(playful music)
So, if you've ever heard
of the CRUD acronym before it stands
for create, read, update, and delete
and we've pretty much done all of that already.
We've have the ability to create a fish.
We have the ability to read a fish.
We're reading it into here.
We have the ability to update a fish by typing into here,
but we don't have the ability to delete any of our items.
So, in this video, we're gonna go over deleting items
from our inventory as well as deleting items from our order.
So, let's go ahead and open up App.js
'cause that's where our deleting is going to happen
and let's start with the actual
creating a delete fish function.
So, right below update fish, we'll say deleteFish
and that is going to take a key
for which fish we would like to delete
and from there it's pretty simple in what we're going to do.
So, first thing we're gonna do is,
one, and you're gonna get really good
at this whole updating state.
So, take a copy of state.
So, it's a const fishes is equal to
...this.state.fishes.
Then, we are going to, two, update the state.
In our case here, we are going to remove an item from state.
So, if this was an array, all I would do is,
I would just filter.
I would do something like this,
do it in one go.
I would just say, like, this.state.fishes.filter
and then just return the new,
the amount of fishes that I want.
But, because it's an object, we first take a copy of it
and then we are going to set the fish
that we don't want to null
and initially, I thought, like okay,
we just could delete, like, fishes.fish1.
However, there's a little bit of a weird thing
with Firebase where if you want Firebase
to also remove it, you have to set it to null.
So, what we're gonna do is we're gonna say
fishes[Key].
So, it's like kind of like fishes.fish1,
fishes.fish2 is equal to null.
And then three, we're just going to update state.
So, this.setState
fishes.
It's kind of interesting that it's almost exactly the same
as our update fish except that
in this case we are just setting it to null
rather than updating and overriding a fish.
So, that's good.
Let's actually try to manually do it.
I'll go into our reactive tools.
We'll find app
and we will use a $R.
So, $R.
deleteFish,
there it is.
And, let's just try delete fish one.
Boom.
Removed it.
Let's try
delete, what is it,
fish two.
So, let's try delete fish two.
Boom.
Actually takes it, removes it
from the order entirely which is great.
And now we need to hook that up to a button,
so we're going to go to our edit fish form
and we're going to go all the way to the bottom
and just add a button here that says remove fish.
Good.
And, now we need to somehow get that delete fish function
to, downstream to the edit fish form
and it's gonna work exactly the same
as the rest of them did.
So, this is in our inventory.
We have add fish, update fish, and now we have delete fish.
And then we're gonna go into our inventory
and pass it down one more level deeper.
Delete fish.
And then, when somebody clicks it, we can go here.
We can say onClick equals
and now here's where you're like it's a bit
of a different than what we've had so far
like do we need to have a, another function right here
that we create that just deletes it
or can we do it in line
and the answer is that we can actually just do
an inline function here using an arrow
and we say this.props.deleteFish
and we'll pass it the key
and the key, where's the key?
The key is passed in, I believe,
let's look back.
Passing it in as an index so,
we'll say this.props.index.
Oh, does that work?
Boom.
Boom, boom, boom.
Boom, boom.
Remove it.
It could load a bunch more.
Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.
Deleting it, really nice.
So, that's all it is to remove an item from state.
Now, we actually need to hook up a remove button
so that when we have something in our order
we're able to delete it.
So, I wanna challenge you right now.
Maybe pause the video and try
to do this little piece on your own
because it's almost exactly the same as deleting the fish,
but we are going to create another method
that deletes something from order.
So, if you feel like you're comfortable enough
with this stuff right now, go ahead and pause it
and try it yourself.
Otherwise, let's go along for the ride.
So, I'm gonna go back to App.js.
And, right below add to order,
we're going to make a removeFromOrder
and that's going to take in a key.
And, we're simply going to (laughs),
let's just copy this.
It's super simple.
Very much the same.
So take a copy of state, either add to,
or I would change that one.
So, it would say remove that item from order.
And, in this case, we simply say order key is equal
to null, or, sorry, actually that's wrong
because in this case since we're not mirroring
to Firebase, we can use delete.
And we can delete the order key.
And then, finally, we reinstate it back into state.
So, that's good.
Let's add some lobster which we know is fish two
and let's try to manually call that ourselves.
Go to react,
under App, click on it.
Now, let's see.
$r.removeFromOrder,
fish2,
boom.
It removed it from order.
Didn't touch it in any other ones that we have.
Good.
So, we can take this remove from order,
pass it down to our order,
removeFromOrder is equal to
this.removeFromOrder.
Good.
And we'll go to our order component,
is we're going to put a button
that has,
I always like to use the &times,
say onClick,
equals,
and we can do just a little arrow function here,
this.props.removeFromOrder and pass the key.
Good.
Go back here.
Now, when you hover over top,
you should see these little X buttons
and you click on it.
It should remove that specific item from the order
and our order state will then be updated.
Great.
In the next video, we're gonna learn
about how we can actually animate these things
so that when you add them to your order
and when you increment the number
and when you remove them from the order
we all get this nice UI interface.